LMS-WIMCS ANALYSIS DAY

The third LMS-WIMCS Analysis Day took place at the Department of
Mathematics, Swansea University, on Thursday 25 September 2014. The
meeting was designed to give an an opportunity to early career
researchers in analysis, numerical methods and applications to
present their recent results. The talks were mostly focussed on
theoretical and numerical aspects of materials science and spectral
theory. The topics covered a broad range of questions on modern
PDEs but were also sufficiently close to ensure lively discussions
between the participants that may lead to a research collaboration
in the future. The invited speakers of the workshop were:

Aurelio Arranz Carreno (Swansea)
On immersed techniques for fluid-structure interaction: the Immersed Structural Potential Method

The practical solution of complex fluid-structure interaction problems requires
advanced numerical techniques that can cope with the different physics, scales and large
deformations present in the problem. Two main families of methods have been developed
over the years, namely boundary fitted and immersed, and in this talk the speaker present the
Immersed Structural Potential Method, a new numerical technique based upon the original
Immersed Boundary Method (IBM) that is particularly suited for the case of incompressible
solids and fluids, a case that is a main challenge for other techniques.

Mikhail Cherdantsev (Cardiff)
Homogenisation of elastic composite plates in the nonlinear bending regime

The speaker discussed a problem of homogenisation (i.e. finding an effective limit
description) of a thin elastic periodic composite plate in the bending regime
when thickness of the plate and period of the composite microstructure both go to zero.
In particular, in the regime when thickness is smaller then the square of the period,
the speaker presented an interesting and somewhat surprising result implying that the homogenised
stored elastic energy function is everywhere discontinuous function.


Jonathan Eckhardt (Cardiff/Vienna)
The inverse spectral problem for indefinite strings

Solving the equation of motion for a vibrating string with inhomogeneous mass
distribution on a semi-axis by means of Fouriers method leads to a particular Sturm-Liouville
spectral problem. The solution of the corresponding inverse spectral problem, describing the
totality of all associated Weyl-Titchmarsh functions, goes back to work of M. G. Krein from
the 1950s and of L. de Branges from the 1960s. The speaker reviewed this result and showed
how it can be generalized to strings with indefinite mass distribution.

Michael Nieves (Liverpool)
Wiener-Hopf analysis in the dynamic fracture of periodic flexural structures

In this talk, the speaker considered the dynamic fracture problem for a discrete lattice
strip composed of periodically placed point masses connected by beams. A discontinuity
representing the fracture was assumed to propagate steadily along the strip. It was shown that
the governing equations for the masses form a discrete system of second order ODEs involving
the displacements and rotations of the masses. Numerical simulations were given which show
that the model can be used to predict the speed of advancement of the fracture through a structure
subjected to an oscillating point force.


Juan Reyes (Cardiff)
Conditional stability of Calderón problem for less regular conductivities

The speaker presented a recent log-type conditional stability result with Holder norm for the Calderon problem,
assuming continuously differentiable conductivities with Holder continuous first-order derivatives
in a Lipschitz domain of the Euclidean space with dimension greater than or equal to three.

Adam Vellender (Aberystwyth)
Weight functions for fracture problems along soft imperfect interfaces

The speaker considered interfacial crack problems in bi-material linearly elastic and isotropic
solids with soft imperfect interfaces. The presence of imperfect interfaces (typically
used to model a thin layer of adhesive) fundamentally alters the distribution of stresses
near interfacial crack tips. Taking this behaviour into account, the speaker formulated suitable
weight function problems and employed Wiener-Hopf type methods to find their solutions.
These auxiliary solutions aid in the evaluation of all important constants in asymptotic
expressions describing physical fields. Further, perturbation analysis then allows for the
influence of small defects on the propagation of the main crack to be described.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Attendance (Male/Female):

Invited speakers                  6/0
Research students (host inst)     2/2
Research students (other inst’s)  3/0
Other participants (host inst)    4/1
Other participants (other inst’s) 3/1
Total                            18/4

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Financial:

In addition to £357.91 travel expenses listed on Stephen's
spreadsheet we expect £300 for accommodation and £300 for catering
(lunch and dinner), so the expected total for Swansea meeting
should be in the region of £957.91. We will be able to confirm this
once Stephen receives an internal recharge from our Finances.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
